README.md, before:


# Employee Expense Tracker - Expenso
Expenso is an expense-management software basically for Organisations(companies). It will track your expenses, and give it a tabular as well as a graphical view so that you need to know where to tighten up.

 

**Register** fulfills the following functionalities:

-   Let the user login(Authenticate) with their given Id and Password.
   
-   After Authenticating, it allows you to Register the details of your new Employee
   

 

**InputExpense** fulfills the following functionalities:

-   It allows you to add other expenses on various sections like Insurance, Allowance, many more that you did on a particular employee on daily basis.
   

 

**ViewExpenses** fulfills the following functionalities:

-   It allows you to track down the expenses: daily, weekly, and monthly.
   
-   It allows you to track down the expenses of the company in various sectors like allowances, insurance, and many more.
   
-   It allows you to track down the expenses made on particular departments like Technical, Finance, and many more.
   
-   It also shows the expenditure on each employee for the entire month.
   



# Extra Features

-   Beautiful Pie Chart for better visualization.
   
-   Complete tabular data of the entire month on the employee, each sector and each department.
   
-   Clean and Clutter-free UI.
   

 
 

# Deployment

-   This web apps are deployed on - https://expenso-tracker.herokuapp.com/
-   To Login - 
``` 
username = test
password = test@123
```
 
 

# Table Of Contents

1.  Pre-Requisites
   
2.  Setup and Installation.
   
3.  Starting the Project.
   
4.  Tech Stack Used
   
5.  Features and Implementation.
   
6.  Software Designs and Dataflow.
   
7.  Working with the app
   
8.  Working Demo.
   
9.  Contact Us.
   

 

# Pre-Requisites

-   Django Framework Should be Installed on your system.
   
-   Python v3.8(or above) should be installed on your system.
   
-   PIP Packages should be installed on your system.
   

 

# Installation

To run the app locally follow the below steps :

- Clone the repository.

```
git clone https://github.com/NickSneo/Employee-Expense-Tracker.git
```

- Run the following command -

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

- Make `migrations` to the database.

```
python manage.py makemigrations
python manage.py migrate
```
- To Generate a `secret key` for django app, Go to this website [here](https://djecrety.ir/)

- Click on Generate Button
- And Copy this Generated Secret Key
- Paste this Key in `SECRET_KEY` in `settings.py` file.

```
SECRET_KEY = Your_Generated_SECRET_KEY
```
- Now create a super user to use and login into the app
- Remember your username and password, using which you will login

```
python manage.py createsuperuser
```


## Starting the Project

- Start the project using -

```
python manage.py runserver
```

- Browse to http://127.0.0.1:8000/ to see your web app.
 
 

# Tech Stack Used

 

**Frontend**

-   HTML
   
-   CSS
   
-   Javascript
   
-   Bootstrap
   

 

**Backend**

-   Django
   
-   Python 3.8
   

**Database**

-   Sqlite3
   

 
 

# Fetaures and Implemention

 

-   After starting the server, the landing page will ask you to Login Through Given Id and Password.
   
-   You won’t be able to access anything before Login in the Login Page
      
-   On the Home Page, You will see three options Register, InputExpenses, and View Expenses.
   
-   In Register you will be asked to add details of the new Employee.
   
-   The employee details are then stored in the **Employee** database implemented using sqlite3.
   
-   In Input Expense you will be asked to add details of the expenses on te employee based on particular tag.  
   
-   Input Expense in the various tags(Allowance, Insurance, etc) is stored in other database **Expense**.

-   After storing the user’s database we extract those data when we use our ViewExpense.
   
-   In View Expense you can track down the expense based on time,tags,department and per employee 
   
-   After logging out, the user will be redirected to the login page.
     



# Working with the App

 

**Login Page**

-   Clicking on the Login with the login button will take you to the Login page.
   

 

**Home Page**

-   The home page containing three buttons - Registration, InputExpense, ViewExpense.
   

**Regster** 

-   The Registration has a small detail form for the new Employee.

**Input Expense**
   
-   The Input Expense has a small detail form about the tag in which the expense for the particular employee is made.

**View Expense**
   
-   The View Expense has further four dropdown cards, Track by time, Track by tag, Track by department, Track per Employee.


# Software Workflow and DataFlow

**1. Realtional Schema**


**![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/PSAQC3xXc8M4FERXitqQqgsi4f7b5RRR1pw9bVcCwGyPfHgZqAOIZ2XXjrusAmjM9Luu7WgNxEpjoaXjJz4Xk3XAtEC8uFuQT2v31BEoMqj1ir3t0m-D8yZXFKBCfOI0B2gGSNOu)**

**2. ER Diagram**

**![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/NT5oOHQ5f-RQFIMXkJpuutHk60daVRpQTveus-_qfsJXkvQgYZ2sJCpfHXTeldmUo0MvCkURDuM2S9lIY9rRndQnit3HlbBUpdsLjQPn_HOya5kOoZ2cNtW7vvgTWKa_9a_NcOJr)**

**3. Dataflow Diagram**

**[![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/cmP9yxBILkN84GTC8tVB-DulbvpbDb0-mdZha2_LOktunrZqe1HbVJSOhL3BslSYsQ4NGqVGaXrypWDwFmde7kUAdo2XFysMLSe1dHdMeiMVbntM4SkwBjd2kpV6AxHI7niWEVBR)](https://app.lucidchart.com/documents/edit/6b5d915f-2f39-45a0-85f0-ca56a3c44647/0?callback=close&name=docs&callback_type=back&v=890&s=612)**

# Contact Me

You can contact me at <17ucc040@lnmiit.ac.in> and  <nischal.1106@gmail.com>

Commit message:

deployed link added in starting also

README.md, after:


# Employee Expense Tracker - Expenso
Expenso is an expense-management software basically for Organisations(companies). It will track your expenses, and give it a tabular as well as a graphical view so that you need to know where to tighten up.

-   This web apps are deployed on - https://expenso-tracker.herokuapp.com/
-   To Login - 
``` 
username = test
password = test@123
```

**Register** fulfills the following functionalities:

-   Let the user login(Authenticate) with their given Id and Password.
   
-   After Authenticating, it allows you to Register the details of your new Employee
   

 

**InputExpense** fulfills the following functionalities:

-   It allows you to add other expenses on various sections like Insurance, Allowance, many more that you did on a particular employee on daily basis.
   

 

**ViewExpenses** fulfills the following functionalities:

-   It allows you to track down the expenses: daily, weekly, and monthly.
   
-   It allows you to track down the expenses of the company in various sectors like allowances, insurance, and many more.
   
-   It allows you to track down the expenses made on particular departments like Technical, Finance, and many more.
   
-   It also shows the expenditure on each employee for the entire month.
   



# Extra Features

-   Beautiful Pie Chart for better visualization.
   
-   Complete tabular data of the entire month on the employee, each sector and each department.
   
-   Clean and Clutter-free UI.
   

 
 

# Deployment

-   This web apps are deployed on - https://expenso-tracker.herokuapp.com/
-   To Login - 
``` 
username = test
password = test@123
```
 
 

# Table Of Contents

1.  Pre-Requisites
   
2.  Setup and Installation.
   
3.  Starting the Project.
   
4.  Tech Stack Used
   
5.  Features and Implementation.
   
6.  Software Designs and Dataflow.
   
7.  Working with the app
   
8.  Working Demo.
   
9.  Contact Us.
   

 

# Pre-Requisites

-   Django Framework Should be Installed on your system.
   
-   Python v3.8(or above) should be installed on your system.
   
-   PIP Packages should be installed on your system.
   

 

# Installation

To run the app locally follow the below steps :

- Clone the repository.

```
git clone https://github.com/NickSneo/Employee-Expense-Tracker.git
```

- Run the following command -

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

- Make `migrations` to the database.

```
python manage.py makemigrations
python manage.py migrate
```
- To Generate a `secret key` for django app, Go to this website [here](https://djecrety.ir/)

- Click on Generate Button
- And Copy this Generated Secret Key
- Paste this Key in `SECRET_KEY` in `settings.py` file.

```
SECRET_KEY = Your_Generated_SECRET_KEY
```
- Now create a super user to use and login into the app
- Remember your username and password, using which you will login

```
python manage.py createsuperuser
```


## Starting the Project

- Start the project using -

```
python manage.py runserver
```

- Browse to http://127.0.0.1:8000/ to see your web app.
 
 

# Tech Stack Used

 

**Frontend**

-   HTML
   
-   CSS
   
-   Javascript
   
-   Bootstrap
   

 

**Backend**

-   Django
   
-   Python 3.8
   

**Database**

-   Sqlite3
   

 
 

# Fetaures and Implemention

 

-   After starting the server, the landing page will ask you to Login Through Given Id and Password.
   
-   You won’t be able to access anything before Login in the Login Page
      
-   On the Home Page, You will see three options Register, InputExpenses, and View Expenses.
   
-   In Register you will be asked to add details of the new Employee.
   
-   The employee details are then stored in the **Employee** database implemented using sqlite3.
   
-   In Input Expense you will be asked to add details of the expenses on te employee based on particular tag.  
   
-   Input Expense in the various tags(Allowance, Insurance, etc) is stored in other database **Expense**.

-   After storing the user’s database we extract those data when we use our ViewExpense.
   
-   In View Expense you can track down the expense based on time,tags,department and per employee 
   
-   After logging out, the user will be redirected to the login page.
     



# Working with the App

 

**Login Page**

-   Clicking on the Login with the login button will take you to the Login page.
   

 

**Home Page**

-   The home page containing three buttons - Registration, InputExpense, ViewExpense.
   

**Regster** 

-   The Registration has a small detail form for the new Employee.

**Input Expense**
   
-   The Input Expense has a small detail form about the tag in which the expense for the particular employee is made.

**View Expense**
   
-   The View Expense has further four dropdown cards, Track by time, Track by tag, Track by department, Track per Employee.


# Software Workflow and DataFlow

**1. Realtional Schema**


**![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/PSAQC3xXc8M4FERXitqQqgsi4f7b5RRR1pw9bVcCwGyPfHgZqAOIZ2XXjrusAmjM9Luu7WgNxEpjoaXjJz4Xk3XAtEC8uFuQT2v31BEoMqj1ir3t0m-D8yZXFKBCfOI0B2gGSNOu)**

**2. ER Diagram**

**![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/NT5oOHQ5f-RQFIMXkJpuutHk60daVRpQTveus-_qfsJXkvQgYZ2sJCpfHXTeldmUo0MvCkURDuM2S9lIY9rRndQnit3HlbBUpdsLjQPn_HOya5kOoZ2cNtW7vvgTWKa_9a_NcOJr)**

**3. Dataflow Diagram**

**[![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/cmP9yxBILkN84GTC8tVB-DulbvpbDb0-mdZha2_LOktunrZqe1HbVJSOhL3BslSYsQ4NGqVGaXrypWDwFmde7kUAdo2XFysMLSe1dHdMeiMVbntM4SkwBjd2kpV6AxHI7niWEVBR)](https://app.lucidchart.com/documents/edit/6b5d915f-2f39-45a0-85f0-ca56a3c44647/0?callback=close&name=docs&callback_type=back&v=890&s=612)**

# Contact Me

You can contact me at <17ucc040@lnmiit.ac.in> and  <nischal.1106@gmail.com>
